poukai
Homonym Number:
Word Class:noun
Sense Number:
Definition:any of a round of annual hui attended by the Maori King (or, formerly, Queen) in Kingite territory
Origin:Maori
Register:
Register 2:
Domain:[none]
Region:[none]
See:
Pronunciation:
Notes:
Citations
Date: 0/0/1993
Source: Dictionary of NZ Biography
Author:
Vol / Page: 2
Edition:
Quote: Home in Waikato, Tawhiao sought solutions to Maori problems through the establishment of Maori institutions to deal with them. In 1885 he initiated the institution of Poukai, where the King would pay annual visits to King movement marae to encourage people to return to their home marae at least once a year. The first Poukai (originally called Puna-kai, or 'source of food') was held at Whatiwhatihoe in March 1885. It was a day for the less fortunate to be fed and entertained. The Poukai developed into an event which would later ensure direct consultation of the people with the King.
Notes: from the DNZB entry on King Tawhiao (R.T. Mahuta) (updated online version 2007)

Date: 18/1/2007
Source: Whakatane Beacon
Author:
Vol / Page: 1
Edition:
Quote: KOKOHINAU Marae in Te Teko had the honour of hosting, for the first time in the Mataatua area, the Maori King, Tuheitia on Sunday.... Mr Eruera said the king was attending a poukai, or assembly, and this was the 44th year it had been held at Kokohinau. ...  A copy of a publication celebrating the 44 years of the poukai being held at Kokohinau was also given to the king by Katerina Waiari. Teriaki Amoamo, on behalf of Whakatohea and Te Whanau-a-Apanui, presented a ceremonial hoe waka (canoe paddle).Mr Eruera said the open debate session, which is what a poukai is all about, raised a few issues. One of those issues was brought up earlier in the day by Whakatohea and Te Whanau-a-Apanui who requested to share the poukai in the future. Mr Eruera said the request would have to go to hapu members to consider.A restored flagpole was also erected - hapu members, under the direction of carver Graham Junior Niao, carried out the restoration on the carved pole - and the special poukai flag was flown.
Notes:
