Forty Thieves
Homonym Number:
Word Class: noun
Sense Number:
Definition:a powerful group of (original) colonial landowners
Origin: [none]
Register: historical
Register 2: derogatory
Domain: [none]
Region: [none]
See:
Pronunciation:
Notes: The 1849 citation below shows that the term was used first in context of the Wellington (Britannia) settlement, and only later in Nelson (and then somewhat differently in Hawke's Bay (1873 citation)). See Orsman for another more recent use in Auckland.
Citations
Date:  0/0/1940
Source:  Marlborough
Author:  McINTOSH
Vol / Page:  137
Edition:
Quote:  Though his assertions may be discounted the spirit of Saunders's utterances may be taken as a reflection of the attitude of the popular party. In commenting on the fact that the power acquired by `the Original Resident Land Purchasers' Association' was retained long after the Company had ceased to exist, Saunders states `It became a leading and bitter opponent, a dangerous and mischievous class combination, facetiously called `The Nelson Supper Party' and more viciously called also `The Forty Thieves'. This party was very ably led by Dr., afterwards Sir David, Monro, and retained all political power in their own hands until some time after the introduction of representative government into this country.
Notes:  [Saunders in ? Nelson Examiner Oct 1857]

Date:  0/0/1873
Source:  Master, The
Author:  ROLLESTON
Vol / Page:  96
Edition:  1980
Quote:  The notoriety of the defendants [at the 1873 Native Lands Alienation Commission] gave rise to their being called, variously, the twelve apostles (actually only seven were involved in the ownership of twelve shares) or the forty thieves.
Notes:

Date:  6/1/1849
Source:  Nelson Examiner and New Zealand Chronicle
Author:
Vol / Page:
Edition:
Quote:  In the outset of the Company's colonisation scheme, there were certain individuals who, by their disinterestedness in forwarding the establishment of the Company's first and principal settlement, obtained the sobriquet of the Forty Thieves ; and it appears that some individuals forming a portion of the Company's second Colony were anxious to rival the above-named gentlemen in a similar line of conduct. The one set proposed, that no individual holding less than five original land-orders in the settlement, should be eligible to a seat in their self- elected Council for the republican settlement of Britannia, well knowing at the time that none but themselves were qualified under such [a regulation, seeing that they were the holders of ten gratuitous landorders from the Company. The Nelson resident original landpurchasers, on the other hand, propose to exclude all persons who are not, like themselves, resident original purchasers, but who still originally emigrated here, and have become holders of land by purchase from them and the absentee land proprietors, and have embarked their labour and capital for various purposes, thereby promoting the welfare of the settlement, from any right to runs for cattle and sheep upon the waste lands.
Notes: Sourced from Papers Past
