Z class
Homonym Number:
Word Class:noun
Sense Number:
Definition:a former class of small racing yacht (aka Takapuna class)
Origin:[none]
Register:
Register 2:
Domain:[none]
Region:[none]
See:also zeddie
Pronunciation:
Notes:
Citations
Date: 0/0/1944
Source: Little Ships: NZ's Yachting Fleet
Author: CARTER
Vol / Page: 127
Edition:
Quote: Next to the X class. is the Z class, orwhat are often referred to as theCornwall Cup boats. They owe theirexistence to a small band of Takapunayachtsmen who planned the first boat,with much the same idea in their minds asdid George Honour when he built the firstof the 14-foot square bilge boats,namely, low first cost, ease ofconstruction, and an ever-watchful eye onspeed and performance under Aucklandharbour weather conditions.  The yachtswere originally designed for the TakapunaBoating Club but owing to theirpopularity from the outset the type wasquickly adopted by many other yacht clubsthroughout New Zealand... From smallbeginnings the Takapuna one-design  classrapidly expanded.
Notes:

Date: 0/0/1966
Source: Yachting the NZ Way
Author: DYSON
Vol / Page: 153
Edition:
Quote: Wherever there is a creek or a beach inNew Zealand you find a Z class. It isprobably one of the oldest one-designclasses in the world - it was designed byMr Bob Brown for the Takapuna BoatingClub in 1922.
Notes:

Date: 0/0/1978
Source: Little Ships of NZ
Author: TITCHENER
Vol / Page: 64
Edition:
Quote: A good example.. was the design of thefamous but ill-fated Z-class, whichbecame known as the Takapuna classthroughout New Zealand.
Notes: [Specifications - 3.8 m yacht, designedby R B Brown of Northcote. 1.5m beam,msquare chine vee-bottom principle. Thewhole of the sailing area carried on agunter mainsail, on a short mast forward,no bowsprit or headsail]

Date: 0/0/1989
Source: Kohimarama
Author: DAVIS
Vol / Page: 113
Edition:
Quote: The Z class, or "Zeddie" as it wasaffectionately known, was another classwhich was designed as a low cost sailingboat to get the boys into something saferthan the tin canoes or derelict dinghiesin which they cruised Shoal Bay. Ibid.114 The Takapuna Boating Club which wasthen situated at Bayswater, was thesponsoring club and the yachts were oftenreferred to as the "Takapuna Class".
Notes:
