Hokonui Swindle
Homonym Number:
Word Class: noun
Sense Number:
Definition:error for Hokitika swindle, a bar-game played with the numbers on bank-notes.  ca1974 Wellington: used in De Brett hotel bar
Origin: [none]
Register:
Register 2:
Domain: [none]
Region: [none]
See:
Pronunciation:
Notes:
Citations
Date:  19/10/1983
Source:  NZ Times
Author:
Vol / Page:  3
Edition:
Quote:  included in Hodges's  study is the truly macho battle of alcoholic consumption - the drinking game. ... There'll be some inane feat of manliness to perform, such as a lewd tongue-twister, or a physical show of strength, and he who loses has to down his glass in a gulp. in Otago alone, Hodges found 42 varieties of the theme, with names such as `One Fat Hen and a Couple of Ducks' or the `Hokonui Swindle'.
Notes:

Date:  13/3/1988
Source:  Dominion Sunday Times
Author:
Vol / Page:  16
Edition:
Quote:  Other well-known [drinking] games are Hokonui Swindle, Bottles, Fluffy Ducks, Bunnies are Hovering, Cardinal Huff, All Blacks, Matches, and The Amazing Grimaldi Brothers. All these games involve either a complicated intellectual exercise, tongue twisters, mathematical calculations or aerobatics in a confined space; High Candelabras for example, involves intoxicated individuals attempting to traverse the four walls of a room without touching the floor.
Notes:

Date:  0/0/1989
Source:  Dinkum Kiwi Dictionary, The
Author:  McGiLL
Vol / Page:  45
Edition:
Quote:  Hokonui Swindle more recent name for and/or version of the Hokitika Swindle, a pub game aimed at financing further drinking. Baker identified the Hokitika version as based on a method of counting `whereby the person who calls a certain number in a sequence pays a specified sum into the jackpot'. Glenn Johnston defines the Hokonui version as a drinking game that combines elements of chance with the ability to hold your liquor and follow a few simple rules - though the deviousness of the caller can also influence proceedings. The aims are simple: to liven things up, get a bit of alcohol consumed quickly and sort the stayers from the pikers.
Notes:
