snowball waltz
Homonym Number:
Word Class:noun
Sense Number:
Definition:A means of breaking the ice; a pre-selected split up when the music stops and each takes a new partner from others in the hall; this continues until all are on the floor.
Origin:[none]
Register:
Register 2:
Domain:[none]
Region:[none]
See:
Pronunciation:
Notes: Also the name of a book by Renee. Note on conversation with Deidre Macken (60 yrs) about her mother's story (86 yrs). She was in the Wellington Ballet Company in 1926 and on news of Pavlova's tour wrote to her manager enquiring how they could help make her tour and reception more pleasant, her favourite colours, foods, etc. She expressed a great liking for meringue (cakes) so they consulted a chef who produced 3 attempts (e.g. a square cake was rejected in favour of a round one); finally the `soft-centre' variety was chosen. In her honour they named it Pavlova (?cake) and they presented this to Pavlova (? at a gathering) and she liked it a great deal. D. Macken is to research this - ? Ballet company records, etc. Deidre Macken (04) 384-6073 -  H.D. Macken, Nairn St.
Citations
Date: 13/12/1997
Source: Listener (New Zealand Listener)
Author:
Vol / Page: 46
Edition:
Quote: At its compulsive best, The Snowball Waltz is an acutely rendered portrayal of human frailty and unexpected fortitude.
Notes:

Date: 0/0/1997
Source: Snowball Waltz, The
Author: RENEE
Vol / Page: 60
Edition:
Quote: The next dance, ladies and gentlemen, is a Snowball Waltz! We knew they did this at real dances because Gertrude played in real dance bands once, which was how our mother met the saxophone player.
Notes:

Date: 0/0/1998
Source: Bums on Seats
Author: HALL
Vol / Page: 57
Edition:
Quote: Balls [in the 1950s] had their own routines : quicksteps, waltzes and foxtrots. Then supper, after which things livened up ; the Snowball Waltz, the Valeta and the Gay Gordons until finally the Last Waltz was announced.
Notes:

Date: 26/10/1997
Source: Sunday Star Times
Author:
Vol / Page: E6
Edition:
Quote: With her latest novel, The Snowball Waltz, Renee has reached a new pinnacle of success... The novel takes its title from a dance which begins with two partners who, when the music stops, separate and seek new partners.
Notes:
